

Confidentiality, message integrity and authentication:

Confidentiality:

	The assurance to an entity that no one can read a particular piece
	of data except the receiver(s) explicitly intended.If information
	is read or copied by someone who is not authorized to do so,the
	result is known as loss of confidentiality.Confidentiality is
	very important attribute for information types like research data,
	medical and insurance records.

Integrity:

	The assurance to an entity that data has not been
	altered(intentionally or unintentionally) between "there" or
	"here", or between "then" and "now".It is now to whether the
	data in transit has been modified.Information can be corrupted
	when it is available on an insecure network. When information
	is modified in unexpected ways,the result is known as loss of
	integrity.Unauthorized changes can be made to the information,
	either by human error or intentional tampering.

Authentication:

	The assurance to one entity that another entity is who he/she
	claims to be.

	Authentication is proving that a user is whom he or she claims
	to be.That proof may involve something the user knows(such
	as password),something the user has (such as smartcard),or
	something about the user that proves the person's identity(such as
	fingerprint).Security is strong when the means of authentication
	cannot later be refuted(prove that is wrong)-the user cannot
	later deny that he or she performed the activity.This is known
	as nonrepudiation



http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/SSL-Certificates-HOWTO/x64.html

root certificate

http://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSFKSJ_7.1.0/com.ibm.mq.doc/sy10530_.htm

Message Digest:

	It is a fixed size numeric representation of the contents of
	the message,computed by the hash function.Messages size may be
	variable but message digest size is fixed.Encryption of message
	digest is nothing but digital signature.

	So while sending,he generates a message digest and then encrypt
	the digest using the private key forming an a digital signature.At
	the receiving side,the signature must be decrypted by using public
	key will get you the message digest,then it has to compute the
	message digest of the received message and then compare both
	of them.If both of them are equal then the message has not
	been tampered.


Digital Certificate:

	It is used to bind a public key to owner.If the public key
	are sent directly by their owner to another entity,there is
	a risk that the message could be intercepted and the public
	key substituted by another.This is known as man in the middle
	attack.Solution to this problem is to exchange public keys
	through a trusted third party.Instead of sending your public
	key directly, you ask the trusted third party to integrate it
	into a digital certificate.The trusted third party that issues
	digital certificates is called a Certificate Authority(CA).


	Digital certificate contains specific pieces of information,as
	determined by X.509 standard.These piece of information include:
	...Owner Public Key ...Owner Distinguished Name ...Distinguished
	Name of the CA that issued the certificate ...Date from which
	the certificate is valid ...Expiry date of the certificate.
	...A serial number:This is a unique identifier assigned by the
	CA which issued
	   the certificate.The serial number is unique within the CA
	   which issued the		 certificate

	The digital signature in a personal certificate is generated using
	the private key of the CA which signed that certificate.Anyone
	who needs to verify the personal certificate can use the CA's
	public key to do so.The CA's certificate contains its public key.


Public Key Infrastructure:

	A PKI  is a system of facilities, policies, and services that
	supports the use of public key cryptography for authenticating
	the parties involved in the transaction.

	PKI typically comprises certificate authorities(CAs) and
	Registration Authorities(RAs).CAs provides the following services:
	.Issuing digital certificates .Validating digital certificates
	.Revoking digital certificates .Distributing public keys

	RAs verify that the information provided when digital certificates
	are requested.If the RA verifies the information,the CA can
	issue a digital certificate to the requester.


Self signed certificate:

	It is a certificate signed with its own private key.In typical PKI
	arrangements, a digital signature from a certificate authority
	attests that a particular public key certificate is valid.As
	the digital certificates is signed by the private key of CA ,
	now suppose if the user wants to check whether the data is
	correct or not he has to have the public key of the CA which
	is present in the digital certificate of the CA.This digital
	certificate will be signed by highest CA.Obviously the highest
	ranking CA's certificate can't be attested by some other higher
	CA(their being none),and so that the certificate can only be
	self-signed.Such certificates are termed as root certificates.

Format of the Certificate and Keys: .pem is the format


What is the need for CA?

	Consider friends bob and alice.Alice want to encrypt something
	to Bob.So Alice requires the private key of Bob.Alice searches
	for the private key of Bob in the internet,and Alice can't be
	sure that the public key she got is really of Bob.

	So Alice takes a different approach:will get the key from someone
	that can assure her that the key actually belongs to Bob.The CA
	does exactly that.

	How the CA does that?Simple Bob identifies himself to the CA
	and send his public key.This way,the CA have something relates
	the identity of Bob with his public key.


How Digital Signatures are Made?

	Digital signatures are typically made in a two-step process.The
	first step is to use a secure hashing algorithm on the data.SHA-2
	algorithms would be an example of that.The second step is to
	encrypt the resulting output with a private signing key.

	Thus when a signature is verified by the public key, it decrypts
	to a hash matching the message.

What is the information contained in the certificate?

	A certificate is a small structure which contains, in a
	conventional format: ...an identity(the name of the owner)
	...a public key(purportedly owned by that person) ...a digital
	signature computed over two previous parts by a certification
	Authority.

What happens during a HTTPS Web site access?

	During the initial phases of the connection between your browser
	and the web server, the server sends his certificate.The browser
	then verifies the certificate against a list of hardcoded CA
	public key(which have been included courtesy of the browser
	or operating system vendor).Once the browser has verified the
	certificate,it knows the public key, and uses it to establish
	the confidential tunnel with the server.


Hash Functions:

	A hash function is a completely public algorithm(no key
	in that)which mashes bit together in a way which is truly
	infeasible to untangle.anybody can run the hash function on
	any data,but finding the data back from the hash output appears
	to be much beyond our wit(intelligence).The hash output has a
	fixed size,typically 256 bits(with SHA-256) or 512 bits(with
	SHA-512).The SHA-* function which output 160 bits is called
	SHA-1,not SHA-160.

What is S in the HTTPS?

	Most people associate HTTPS with SSL(Secure Socket Layer)
	which was created  by Netscape in the mid 90's. This is
	becoming less true over time.As Netscape lost market share,SSL's
	maintenance moved to Internet Engineering Task Force(IETF).The
	first post Netscape version was re-branded as Transport Layer
	Security(TLS)1.0 which was released in January 1999.

	By agreement of RFC 2818,Browser knews that https means it should
	connect to port 443.

http://www.moserware.com/2009/06/first-few-milliseconds-of-https.html


Drawback of Public Key Cryptography:

	Public Key cryptography has a significant drawback, though it is
	intolerably slow for large messages. Symmetric key cryptography
	can usually be done quickly enough to encrypt and decrypt all the
	network traffic  a machine can manage.Public key cryptography
	is generally limited by the speed of the cryptography,not the
	bandwidth going into the computer,particularly on server machines
	that need to handle multiple connections simultaneously.

	As a result,most systems that use public key cryptography,
	SSL included, use it as little as possible.Generally, public
	key encryption is used to agree on an encryption key for a
	symmetric algorithm,and then all further encryption is done
	using the symmetric algorithm.Therefore, public key encryption
	algorithms are primarily used in key exchange protocols and when
	non-repudiation (cannot refuse to accept) is required.


What is Truststore?

	File that holds the various certificates of Certifying
	Authorities.


What is Certificate Chains?

	Every certificate contains a subject field that identifies the
	individual or group to which the certificate was issued.Every
	certificate also contains an issuer field that identifies the
	Certification Authority empowered to certify the identity of
	the subject.

	A certificate chain consists of all the certificates needed
	to certify the subject identified by the end certificate.In
	practice this includes the end certificate, the certificates
	of intermediate CA's,and the certificate of a root CA trusted
	by all parties in the chain.Every intermediate CA in the chain
	holds a certificate issued by the CA one level above it in the
	trust hierarchy. The root CA issues a certificate for itself.


Functions of Cryptographic Algorithms:

1. Generating Cryptographic Keys 2. Creating and Verifying Digital
Signatures.  3. Encryption and Decryption 4. Establishing secret keys
among communicating entities

Classification of Cryptographic Algorithms:

Based on the number of cryptographic keys they use it is classified into
three types: 1.Hash Algorithms 2.Symmetric Key Algorithms 3.Asymmetric
(Public Key) key Algorithms

Hash Functions:

	---> Does not require keys

	---> Converts an arbitrary-length bit string into a small
	fixed-length bit string called hash value or message digest

	---> Features of hash function is that we cannot get the input
	back from the hash value and no two different inputs will have
	the same hash value

	---> Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA) is one of the most widely used
	hash function.

	---> Four SHA hash functions present:SHA-1, SHA-256, SHA-384
	and SHA-512

	---> SHA-1 produces 160-bit long hash value.SHA-256,SHA-384
	and SHA-512 produces 256-,384- and 512-bit long hash
	values,respectively.

	---> These hash functions differ primarily in the security
	strength they provide.SHA-1 is the weakest.



Symmetric Key Algorithms:

	---> Two communicating parties use a single identical key for
	both encryption and decryption

	---> The symmetric key should be kept secret and should be known
	to people authorized to access

	---> Limitation: Difficult for communicating parties to
			 exchange and agree upon secret keys( a process
			 referred to as key establishment) over nonsecure
			 and nonprivate networks

	---> Advantage: Based on simple logical operations , such as
			AND,OR,and XOR,and therefore these are highly
			computational efficient

	---> Commonly used for encryption and decryption.


	---> Two familes of symmetric key Algorithms:
			---> Advanced Encryption Standard(AES) --->
			Triple Data Encryption Algorithm(TDEA)

	---> Takes block of data as input for encryption and decryption
	     and therefore commonly referred to as block ciphers.

	---> Weakness: Same plaintext block will always encrypt to the
	same cipher text whenever the same key is used.

	---> AES consists of three block ciphers: AES-128,AES-256,AES-512.
	     Each of these use the same block size of 128 bits as input
	     but with 128-, 192-, and 256-bit keys respectively.

	---> A symmetric key algorithm using k-bit long keys has been
	     considered to have a security strength of k bits

Public Key(Asymmetric Key)Algorithms:

	---> Pair of distinct keys:Private Key and Public Key

	---> Private key is kept secret and uses it to generate
	     digital signatures, but public key is known to anyone and
	     it is used to verify the signatures.

	---> Both keys are mathematically linked,such that knowing
	     the public key it is impossible to compute the private key.

	---> Advantage: Anyone can send digitally signed messages
  	     to others without the need for secure exchange of secret keys
	     first.This is very much useful in highly time-sensitive
	     authenticated vehicle-to-vehicle broadcast, in which
	     broadcasting vehicle signs the message with its private
	     keys and the other vehicle uses it public key to verify the
	     digital signatures to authenticate the messages and verify
	     message integrity.

	---> Commonly used to create and verify digital signatures or
	also be used for message encryption and decryption.

	---> Limitation : More computationally intensive than symmetric key

	---> Longer the length of the public and private key, stronger will be security



Functions of a Digital Signature Algorithms:

	1. Generating Private and Public Key
	2. Creating Signatures
	3. Verifying Signatures.

	There are three algorithms:
		---> RSA algorithm
		---> Digital Signature Algorithm
		---> Elliptical Curve DSA(ECDSA)

ECDSA for Vehicle Safety Communications:

Advantages:

	---> ECDSA offers high level of security when compared to DSA,RSA for same 
	     public key size.

	---> Produces smaller signatures than RSA,hence lower message overhead while
	     transporting

Limitations:

	---> Slower in signature verification.

	---> It creates and verifies signatures only cannot be used for encryption
	     and decryption, separate encryption and decryption algorithm is needed

IEEE 1609.2 standard uses ECDSA for signature creation and verification while using a 
combination of ECIES and symmetric key algorithms for encryption and decryption.


Authentication and Integrity Verification using Digital Signatures:


	A message originator first uses a cryptographic hash function to generate digest
	of the message to be signed.This allows the signature to be generated over a small
	digest of the message rather than the potentially large message itself, which helps
	reduce signature creation time.


	The message signer uses a digital signature algorithm and the message signer's private
	key to sign the message digest to produce a digital signature that will be sent together
	with the message to the receivers.

		Each message receiver uses the message signer's public key and the corresponding
	digital signature algorithm to verify the received signature.Successful signature 
	verification means the signature was created by the private key that is associated with
	the public key and the message has not been altered since it was signed.Hence both integrity
	and authenticity is achieved.


Diffie-Hellman key establishment protocol:


	---> Allows to establish key over an insecure communication channel.
















Public Key Certificates:

	---> A public key certificate(digital certificate) is a digital object that 
	     binds a public key with the identity or type of the public key's owner.

	---> Conventional Certificate consists of

		---> public key

		---> identity of the owner of the public key

		---> validity time period of the certificate

		---> information identifying the certificate issuer
	
		---> certificate issuer's signature

	---> Certificates are issued by the entities known as Certificate Authority(CA)

	---> To verify the integrity of each and every certificate issued, he sign it 
	     with private key and publishes its public key for anyone to verify its 
	     signature.

	---> Certificates are stored in a format:X.509 

	---> Certificates usually have finite lifetimes.Hence owners of the certificate
	     has to update the information on the certificates periodically.



What happens when a message originator sends its certificate with signed message?

	---> First the receiver verifies the certificate issuer's signature on
	     the certificate using the public key of the CA

	---> On success, it uses the public key on the certificate to verify the 
	     signature on the received message.Successful verification tells the
	     message receiver that the message was signed by the subject of the 
	     certificate and integrity is not lost.

Certification Revocation List:


	CRL is a list of certificates that have been revoked(cancelled), and therefore
	entities presenting those certificates should no longer be trusted.CRL is always
	issued by the CA that issues the corresponding certificates.The CRL file is
	itself signed by the CA to prevent tampering.




